Crappy Nails
Dana Ryashy

This project is a (fun) drag and drop game called Crappy Nails. I originally intended for a game that asked the player to quickly press different keys in order to push something (e.g. the timeline of a loop-able video) and it reverting back to its start. However, such game would've made me miss the opportunity to explore the draggables and droppables of JQuery UI and all of the possibilities they can offer. Thus I started thinking of a task that would ask the player to arrange objects in an organized manner, just for the objects to get disorganized again. Such task is sisyphean, possibly relatable and hopefully annoying. After doodling with simple rectangular "divs", I came up with the idea of hanging picture frames on a wall, and them falling on the ground. Why would they fall on the ground? Because the nails holding them are useless.

I wanted to make the game bright and fun, despite it being tedious. I thus decided to use bold colors and heavy black outlines. The original look of the cursor did not fit the esthetic, thus I decided to modify it as well. I wanted the game to feel a bit more dynamic and thus wanted to make heavy use of the animation function of JQuery, which also was fun to play with. I do believe that more animations should've been integrated, such as distracting events happening through the window, the picture frames appearing one after the other at the beginning of the game, or a ticking clock. I was however satisfied with the wobble animation happening when a picture frame is grabbed, and found the animation of it falling on the ground amusing.  

In terms of music, the intro screen of the game is silent since Audio cannot be played without the player interacting with the page first. Therefore the audio comes in once the player has clicked the play button. I wanted to use a background music that made the player aware that time was passing while they achieved no results, in the hopes of making the task seem more tedious. Sound effects were also added when the frame was hung on the wall as well as when it fell on the ground, as to increase interactivity. Additional decorations were added around the play area, such as a window and a floor, for the purpose of situating the player in the context.

I have learned a great deal about the JQuery library through this project. I made use of the API in the hopes of finding new functionalities and possibilities. Through additional research on question and answer websites, I discovered new knowledge, such as the UI Helper property which made interaction between draggables and droppables much easier.
