SHARKS ARE FOND OF JUNK FOOD
Dana Ryashy

This project was mainly directed by my desire to try to create a VR game and by the curiosity sparked in me by the A-Frame library. The idea came from a children's clothing shop I work at, where highly gendered clothes were sold. All of the girl's printed shirts had either mermaids, emojis, unicorns and rainbows. All of the boy's printed shirts had dinosaurs, sharks, ninjas, sports, video games and junk food. Since those shirts sell the best, the company started making strange amalgamations of the elements usually present on those clothes. Boy's shirts had dinosaur-shark hybrid creatures eating pizza. Girl's shirts had kitten-mermaid-unicorn hybrid creatures hugging rainbows. The company's relentlessness on using only those best selling visual elements led me to the idea of creating a game of which one would play a version that matches the gender that they chose. There would be only two choices, either "boy" or "girl". If the player chooses the male gender, they will play a game where they're a ninja under water trying to feed some sharks with slices of pizza. If the player chooses the female gender, they will play the role of a fairy that sends happy rainbows to some sad unicorns. I thought this could represent well the stereotypes assigned to those two genders. Girls are seen to be more preoccupied with emotion, while boys are seen more physical. The game was meant to use the same code for both the "girl" and "boy" versions. Only the colors and 3D models used would be different. Not only this would simplify my task, but it could also reflect the superficiality of the differences that the clothing company establishes amongst kids of different gender.

Unfortunately, developing the game took more time than expected and only the "boy" version of it was made. I've encountered difficulties with the 3D models used, specifically with the colliders generated by the A-Frame's physics. I've had a bit of difficulty with determining the velocity of the projectile. I also wanted to explore how I could create caustics on the sea floor. I've found that a fast way of doing so was to use a gif to texture the floor with the help of a component. Having never really used 3D modeling software, I decided to take pre-made models online and slightly modify them. Since I didn't know how to animate the models using the software, and since I wanted the shark to be animated, I simply cut the pre-made shark model into pieces, loaded the pieces separately onto the game and animated them using A-Frame's animations.

It was important for me to make the game playable on mobile, since I wanted the game to involve body movement and I wanted to keep it very accessible. All the necessary controls could thus be done with touching the screen or moving around. Having focused mostly on how it would work on mobile, it appears to me that the game is much harder to play on a desktop. Despite trying to improve the accuracy of the projectile throw when using the cursor to aim, I still feel that the desktop experience could be improved if the camera movements were done by moving the mouse (instead of dragging it) and the action were done with a click (instead of a keypress).
